# Generates a cross section of a cylinder bundle

Generates a cross section of a cylinder bundle with a given density and
voxel size. The cross section is generated by simulating a random
distribution of cylinders and computing the intersection of the
cylinders with a plane. The radii of the cylinders are drawn from a
Gamma distribution fitted from data retrieved by histology in the genu
of the corpus callosum (Aboitiz et al., 1992). The number of cylinders
is determined by the density and the voxel size.

## Usage

``` r
simulate_bundle(
  density = 0.5,
  voxel_size = 10,
  rel_tol = 0.001,
  verbose = FALSE
)
```

## Arguments

- density:

  A numeric value between 0 and 1 specifying the density of the
  cylinders in the voxel. Defaults to `0.5`.

- voxel_size:

  A numeric value specifying the size of the voxel in micro- meters.
  Defaults to `10`.

- rel_tol:

  A numeric value specifying the relative tolerance to reach the target
  volume defined as `density * voxel_size^2`. Defaults to `1e-3`.

- verbose:

  A logical value specifying whether to print messages. Defaults to
  `FALSE`.

## Value

A list with the following components:

- `sections`: A numeric matrix with 3 columns:

  - `x`: The x-coordinates of the centers of the cylinders;

  - `y`: The y-coordinates of the centers of the cylinders;

  - `r`: The radii of the cylinders in micrometers.

- `voxel_size`: The size of the voxel in micrometers

## References

Aboitiz, F., Scheibel, A. B., Fisher, R. S., & Zaidel, E. (1992). Fiber
composition of the human corpus callosum. Brain research, 598(1-2),
143-153.

## Examples

``` r
density <- 0.5
voxel_size <- 5 # micrometers
withr::with_seed(1234, {
  out <- simulate_bundle(density, voxel_size)
})

# Actual density in the simulated substrate
sum(out$sections[, "r"]^2 * pi) / voxel_size^2
#> [1] 0.4996497
```
